[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Hi.
I'm Dr. Bradley Nelson,
author of "The Emotion Code."
In this series called the
"E-Motion Code Toolkit,"
I'm going to give you the
practical techniques that will
enable you to find and release
your own emotional baggage.
In my many years
of research, I have
found that getting rid
of your emotional baggage
is the key to creating better
relationships for yourself,
better health for yourself, and
more abundance for yourself.
To help you understand the
impact that emotional baggage
can have on you, we need to talk
a little bit about your body.
If you look at your hand,
your hand looks solid.
But if you were to magnify your
hand a million times or so,
you'd see that your hand
is actually made mostly
of energy and empty space.
Your body is an energy field.
You are a body of pure energy,
a being of pure energy.
Now, we can measure
thoughts electronically,
and we can measure
emotions as well.
And every emotion has its
own particular vibration.
So anger is a
different frequency
of vibration than grief.
And grief is different
from sadness.
They're all different.
But as you have lived
through your life
and you've experienced intense
emotional times, on a quantum
level, what happened
during those times
was that your body
was literally feeling
this vibration of whatever
it was-- anger or resentment
or sadness or grief.
And during those
times when you're
feeling that emotion
so powerfully,
your whole body can
take on that vibration.
And sometimes that emotion,
that energy, and that vibration
is too powerful.
It's too much for your body
to really take and process.
And so the emotional energy
can become trapped in the body.
And that forms a little
ball of emotional energy
from about the size
of a baseball to about
the size of a softball.
And these energies can
lodge anywhere in your body.
And having them then disrupts
how you function, how you feel,
and how you live the
rest of your life.
When you have a trapped emotion,
it affects you in two ways.
A trapped emotion will
affect you physically,
because there is
a distorting force
that a trapped emotion
will cause on the energy
field of your body.
And because your body really
is nothing more than an energy
field, when you distort the
energy field of the body,
you're ultimately distorting the
tissues of the body themselves.
You're interfering with
the chemical reactions
in that area of the body.
You're interfering
with the blood
flow to some degree and the
lymph flow to some degree.
And you're interfering
with the flow
of energy, the chi
energy, the acupuncture
energy in that area.
That's why trapped emotions
are the number one most common
cause of physical pain.
90% of all the physical
pain that people have
is actually caused by
trapped emotions that are
in that area causing that pain.
But they also have
another effect on us.
What we believe now
is that when you
have a trapped emotion,
that part of your body
that is housing that
energy is literally
feeling that vibration or
feeling that emotion 24
hours a day, 7 days a week.
And so when you release a
trapped emotion of anger
or resentment or frustration
or whatever it might be,
you're literally freeing
your body tissues
from feeling that energy.
And this is a reason why
releasing emotional baggage
changes how people think.
And it can change how you
think and how you feel.
It can change what you
attract into your life.
And that's why this is such an
important thing for you to do.
So how can you identify trapped
emotions that are in your body?
The only way that
you can do it is
by tapping into your
own subconscious mind.
And your subconscious
mind is the part of you
that digests your
meals and keeps
your heart beating and
your lungs breathing
and your food digesting.
That part of you knows what
emotional baggage you have.
It knows when that
emotional baggage
occurred, who was involved.
It knows everything about it.
How do we tap into the
subconscious mind though?
How can we ask questions?
We use muscle testing.
And I'm going to teach you today
a very simple form of muscle
testing that we
call the elbow test.
Here's how it works.
Bring your elbow on either
hand into your side.
And with your other hand,
you can grab your fist,
or you can grab your
wrist, either way.
And what I'd like you to
do now is say something
that is true or congruent.
Let me give you something.
Say the word "yes."
Say the word "yes," and then
gently press down on your arm
and see if that arm
wants to stay strong.
Now say the word "no."
Say the word "no."
No.
Press down on your arm.
And you'll see that there
will be a change there.
If you don't see that
change, if your forearm
doesn't weaken
there and drop, it
means that you are
using too much force.
So just allow your body to
relax a little bit more.
So what you can do is, you
can simply ask this question.
Do I have a trapped emotion
that needs to be released?
And muscle test that.
The answer will be yes or no.
What we do now is, we
use a chart of emotions.
And here you can see the chart.
This chart has 60
emotions in it.
It's divided up into two
columns and six rows.
We identify the trapped
emotion by first identifying
what column it's in.
So let's ask, is this
trapped emotion in column A?
I get a yes answer.
I could ask, is it in column B?
I get a weak response.
That's a no answer.
Now that we've
identified the column,
we can identify the row.
So, first of all,
to make this easy,
let's ask if this
trapped emotion--
now that we know it's
in column A-- is it
in one of the odd rows?
Yes.
So that's narrowed it down
to 15 emotions out of 60.
Is it in row 1 in column A?
No.
So is it in row 3 in column A?
Yes.
So, for me, identifying this
trapped emotion that I have,
I'm finding that it
is in column A, row 3.
That narrows it down
to five emotions.
You can ask about those emotions
one at a time and muscle
test each one.
One of those emotions
should test strong for you.
At that point,
you can ask, do we
need to know any more
about this emotion?
If the body says no,
then you can go ahead
and use your fingertips or a
magnet and simply swipe three
times over the forehead--
over the top of the head
to the back of the
neck like this.
That releases that
emotional energy.
Once you release a trapped
emotion like this--
and the process is
very, very simple--
you may experience positive
changes right away.
You may feel lighter.
You may feel better.
It's also possible
that for a day or so,
you may feel echoes
of that emotion
as it's actually healing.
Releasing as many
trapped emotions
as you can as fast as you can
is not necessarily the best way
to do this.
We recommend releasing no more
than about 8 or 10 trapped
emotions every couple of days.
Our emotional baggage
is the single biggest
underlying common denominator
for all the disease processes
that we suffer from.
It is the biggest underlying
cause of depression and anxiety
and phobias and panic attacks
and PTSD and eating disorders.
It is a factor in
every disease process
that we have seen
in 30 years now.
So getting rid of this
baggage can help you.
It may help you to prevent
disease in your future,
but it can also help
you to unlock the person
that you are really
capable of becoming.
In the next episode,
I'll give you
more tools to release
your emotional baggage
and live in your
fullest potential.
[MUSIC PLAYING]